---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Native Assets
description: ''
subsite: polymesh-docs
---

## Overview

Polymesh supports the issuance and management of both fungible and non-fungible native assets.

While each asset type has differences, in particular in their issuance and definition, both fungible and non-fungible assets use the [Settlement](../../settlement/) and [Compliance](../../compliance/) modules consistently, so can share attestations and be settled collectively.

## Asset IDs

Every native asset on Polymesh has a unique Asset ID - a 16 byte UUID for the asset, generated by Polymesh as the asset is created on-chain.

This Asset ID allows every asset to be uniquely identified, regardless of whether any additional metadata such as external identifiers or tickers are associated with the asset.

## Ticker Registration

In addition to the system-generated Asset ID associated with each native asset, an issuer may also optionally associate their asset with a unique Ticker.

Tickers are always unique, but optional, and must be associated with an asset following a three-step approach:
1. register a unique ticker, paying the 25 POLYX protocol fee.
2. create an asset, with Polymesh generating a unique Asset ID.
3. link the unique Asset ID with the unique Ticker.

Users can register a ticker, and then when they are ready create an asset associated with that registered ticker.

Ticker registrations can be transferred between identities and have an expiry date, currently set to 60 days from their initial registration.

Registering a ticker ensures no other user can issue an asset with that ticker whilst the registration is valid (i.e. has not expired), and has a protocol fee associated with it (currently 25 POLYX).

## External Identifiers

Every asset on Polymesh can be optionally associated with a set of external identifiers, including Cusips, ISINs and other common identifiers.

These external identifiers can be set when an asset is originally created, and can also be modified or updated by the asset issuer (or their agent) after creation.

## Documentation

Polymesh allows the issuer of an asset to associate documents with that asset.

The actual document is not stored on-chain, and instead the asset is associated with a document reference on-chain, where the reference includes a name, the URL at which the document can be found (this may be a permissioned URL requiring an investor in the asset to have some credentials to access the document), as well as an optional document type, filing date, and hash of the document contents.

Documentation can only be updated or modified by the identity that issued the corresponding asset (the asset issuer).

## Metadata

Polymesh allows asset issuers (or their agents) to manage the metadata associated with their asset. This metadata can be used to associate key / value pairs with an asset, which can in turn be used for reporting or driving business logic (for example through smart contracts) associated with the asset.

Metadata in Polymesh is separated into local metadata, where each key value is directly associated with an individual asset, and global metadata, where the keys are set through the on-chain governance process, and are expected to reflect metadata keys which are likely to be common across multiple assets.

## Ownership

All native asset ownership in Polymesh is at the identity level (as opposed to POLYX balances, which are held at the individual key level). Whilst an investor can organise their assets into different portfolios under their [identity](../identity/), compliance is enforced at the identity level, so in order to send or receive a particular assets token, the relevant identity must have claims that match the [compliance](../compliance/) rules specified by the asset issuer for the asset.

## Asset Issuers

The asset issuer is the identity which created the asset. The asset issuer can transfer ownership of an asset to another identity by issuing a `TransferAsset` authorisation which must be accepted by the target identity.

The asset issuer also has some additional controls which are solely accessible to them. These include:

- updating documentation and identifiers for their asset
- freeze and unfreeze any transfers of their asset
- add and remove compliance rules for their asset
- permission venues to settle their asset

In addition an asset issuer can execute a controller transfer of their token. This allows them to force transfer ownership of their asset tokens from any investor back to the primary issuance agent of the asset. The primary issuance agent is an identity which an asset issuer specifies for their asset, and is responsible for treasury management and token distribution.

## Issuance

The issuance process for assets in Polymesh allows the originator of an asset (the asset issuer) to issue and distribute their asset to investors.

### Roles

Every asset, identified by its unique Asset ID, is associated with one or more identities:

- the asset issuers identity: this is the identity that created the asset
- external agent identities: these are the (optional) identities responsible for managing the asset on behalf of the issuer

### External Agents

External agents are Polymesh identities that have been granted permissions related to a particular Asset ID. Their role is to manage the asset - for example compliance rules, documentation and issuance.

The issuer of an asset is automatically assigned as an External Agent to their asset, with full Agent permissions.

External Agents can be added to an asset by any existing agent of the asset with appropriate permissions (including the asset issuer initially as they are defaulted to being an External Agent with full permissions) by issuing a `BecomeAgent` authorisation. The External Agent identity then needs to accept this authorisation.

Each External Agent can be placed into a new or existing permission group, with permissions then derived from this group for all agents within it.

There are some pre-defined agent permission groups which are:
  - Full: Has all permissions
  - ExceptMeta: Manages identities of agents themselves
  - PolymeshV1PIA: Agent group corresponding to a Primary Issuance Agent (PIA) on Polymesh Mainnet v1.
  - PolymeshV1CAA: Agent group corresponding to a Corporate Action Agent (CAA) on Polymesh Mainnet v1.
  - Custom: Specify a custom group of permissions

An asset issuer (more generally an External Agent with appropriate permissions) can create a new agent permission group using the `Custom` enum variant, with whatever permissions are appropriate to their use-case, and then add external agents related to their asset to this group.

Polymesh enforces that there is always at least one identity with `Full` agent permissions to each asset - by default this is the asset issuer, but this can be given to a third-party External Agent by the issuer, and that third-party can then limit the asset issuers agent permission group as needed.